# CS340
Client/Server Development

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two.**

Drawing from the CRUD pyton module, creating code that can easily be maintained, updated, and understood stems from understanding how to modularize components. You want the code to be an excellent stepping stone that does not need modifications to build upon. In the scenario an update or change does require tweaking original core code, ensuring that your documentation is highly detailed and easy to understand will make navigating and changing the proper structuring easy for anyone who has likely not worked with this code first hand. The CRUD module we worked on can easily be modified for additional more detailed queries, filtering and stylings can be tweaked, or additional buttons created with ease based on the documentation and well compartmentalized functions.

**What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

The advantages of working this way is the ability for other engineers down the road to build upon the product delivered. As companies grow, their needs may change, and it's likely they will need to expand upon any original delivered product. Being able to add to or change is more effective in most scenarios than completely engineering a product from the ground up. This CRUD Python module we've created can be re-used across any MongoDB and create a great starting place for other companies or open source use.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?**

Before jumping in and starting to write code, computer scientists spend countless hours depending on the task at hand fully understanding the complexities about the challenge they are about to tackle. First they must look at all the current components, how it is processed, where it is lacking, failing, and succeeding. Secondly they must understand what their client wants to achieve, their end goals, all the bells and whistles, and create a shared understanding of what is possible and what is outside the realm of possibilty, or does not make sense at the time. When they have a big picture idea only then can they begin to create the diagrams necessary to visualize the problem and identify potential roadblocks or bottlenecks that they can then iron out the details before building the components necessary. As they come together, testing is of the utmost importance and a continued dialogue between developer and client to ensure when the product does come together it not only meets, but exceed expectations.

**Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses?**

Previous assignemtns we worked through terminal develping our own queries and understanding database management techniques. Grazioso Salvare has a very specific and niche need to fill and the needs of developing the database management and dashboard narrowed down. The dashboard was undoubtedly the biggest undertaking, and creating something that was not only visually pleasing but provided an ease of use that made it intuitive was a challenge. Working with Dash and the html styling/organization was an undertaking that required a lot of tweaking, fine-tuning, and testing to ensure it all worked properly and no bugs were present.

**What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

In the future for projects like this I would likely create more diagrams and certainly draw out the dashboard. More research into what are common layouts for services requested, practice working with various buttons and drop down menus, and discovering color palates that tie into logos or aestetic feels would improve my skillset when creating databases and dashboards. I would workshop test products with ideally the clients to further understand what works best for them, what they find intuitive or frustrating about the product, and how I can make it work best for their needs. I believe creating a highly detailed search in addition to basic buttons would be the go-to for future projects, putting every option at the users fingertips if they so wish to.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?**

This is quite the broad question, but the core of it boils down to problem solving and creating solutions. Computer scientists build and develop solutions for example, countless every day things we take for granted such as the software behind all our phone applications we use, or the payroll application that tracks our time worked and ensures we are paid appropriately and taxes are withheld and dispersed to the correct entities. It can range from as small as the embedded software within a childs toy responding to input, or as complicated as algorithms behind launching sattelites into space. What computer scientists do matters as they find ways to advance society, achieve the once thought impossible, and streamline previously tedious manual tasks eliminating as much room for error.

**How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

Streamlining local shelters and their databases into a single, easy to use dashboard significantly helps Grazioso and his company perform more efficiently. Previously maybe they had to call each individual shelter and inquire if they had any available adoptable pets that met the requirements, and depending on their technology that may have taken a long time to get a response. Or in the scenario Grazioso had these databases available, they would have had to be skilled with using excel and creating database queries within to sort and organize the data in a fashion that was understandable. The amount of work that previously went into searching for dogs in the specified breed and age range has been drastically cut down considering the three buttons on the dashboard can search and display the data requested within seconds.
